# Documentation for the `devil` package.
  
----------------------------------------------------------------
 
 *Developer's Ideas Library* 
  
----------------------------------------------------------------
 
### Version information:
  
- Package: devil
- Version: 0.0.3
- Generated: 2025-07-23T07:40:25
- Author(s): Any Developers
- Maintainer(s): [Yutaka Morioka],[Hiroki Yamanobe],[Ryo Nakaya]
- License: MIT
- File SHA256: `F*DF5C0588494B2BCB674AC4590BBB1A62DBB2FE48976EA6EFFC4B1B6FF281158C` for this version
- Content SHA256: `C*0A6FAF9027D51DFE8B349F3FCB29079325CBBC556D4E5861E25A83E789D97FBE` for this version
  
---
 
# The `devil` package, version: `0.0.3`;
  
---
 
## Welcome to Developer's Ideas Library(DEVIL) ##
The package is a library of any ideas at any stages from anyone. PharmaForest will maintain the package obtaining ideas from developers. Contact PharmaForest members if you are interested. Purposes of adding devils(components of the package) can be like joking(for fun), trial, showing-off, or recruiting members for further development by showing POC for someone who don't have github account or not faimliar yet with SAS packages framework but is interested in sharing.
  
---
 
  
---
 
Required SAS Components: 
  - Base SAS Software
  
---
 
 
--------------------------------------------------------------------
 
*SAS package generated by SAS Package Framework, version `20241207`*
 
--------------------------------------------------------------------
 
# The `devil` package content
The `devil` package consists of the following content:
 
1. [`text2morse()` function ](#text2morse-functions-1 )
2. [`%chatdms()` macro ](#chatdms-macros-2 )
3. [`%life_game()` macro ](#lifegame-macros-3 )
  
 
4. [License note](#license)
  
---
 
## `text2morse()` function <a name="text2morse-functions-1"></a> ######

text2morse is a function that converts text to Morse code.
options cmplib=work.f ; is required prior to f1 is used.

  
---
 
## `%chatdms()` macro <a name="chatdms-macros-2"></a> ######

This is macro to chat with LLMs(openAI / Google) in SAS DMS(Display Management System) for who cannot afford Viya Copilot. This is actually like Rshiny application which creates window for prompt and you can receive responses from LLMs in log window.

Parameters:

- provider: openAI or google

- model : please specify(e.g. gemini-1.5-flash, gpt-3.5-turbo)

- apikey : please input

- max_tokens : 512 (default)

  
---
 
## `%life_game()` macro <a name="lifegame-macros-3"></a> ######

Program     : %life_game
 Description : Simulates Conway's Game of Life in SAS and generates an animated GIF output.
               Uses a grid of cells initialized randomly or from an input dataset, applies 
               the life game rules iteratively, and visualizes the process as a heatmap animation.

 Author      : Yutaka Morioka
  License : MIT 

 Parameters  :
   outpath       - File path to save the output GIF.
   outfilename   - Name of the output GIF file (default: lifegame).
   seed          - Random seed for initial cell generation (default: 777).
   loop          - Number of iterations (animation frames) to simulate (default: 50).
   xwide         - Width of the grid (default: 50).
   ywide         - Height of the grid (default: 50).
   ds            - Optional input dataset to use as the initial grid. If not provided,
                   a random grid will be generated.

 Output      :
   Animated GIF file showing the evolution of the Game of Life simulation.

 Notes       :
 - The initial grid is either randomly generated or taken from the specified dataset.
 - Each cell's state is updated based on the standard rules of Conway's Game of Life.
 - The macro uses SAS hash objects to efficiently access neighbor cells.
 - The animation is rendered using PROC SGPLOT with heatmap visualization.

 Usage Example:
   %life_game(outpath=D:\Users\Example\Output, outfilename=mygame, loop=100, xwide=60, ywide=60);

  
---
 
  
---
 
# License <a name="license"></a> ######
 
Copyright (c) [2025]  [Yutaka Morioka],[Hiroki Yamanobe],[Ryo Nakaya]
Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, to any person obtaining a copy
of this software and associated documentation files (the "Software"), to deal
in the Software without restriction, including without limitation the rights
to use, copy, modify, merge, publish, distribute, sublicense, and/or sell
copies of the Software, and to permit persons to whom the Software is
furnished to do so, subject to the following conditions:
The above copyright notice and this permission notice shall be included
in all copies or substantial portions of the Software.
THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR
IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY,
FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE
AUTHORS OR COPYRIGHT HOLDERS BE LIABLE FOR ANY CLAIM, DAMAGES OR OTHER
LIABILITY, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, TORT OR OTHERWISE, ARISING FROM,
OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE SOFTWARE OR THE USE OR OTHER DEALINGS IN THE
SOFTWARE.
  
---
 
